---
layout: post
title: "Studies Directory"
author: "Jackson Cornell"
categories: journal
tags: [resources, books, websites, blogs, videos]
image:
---

## Table of Contents <a name="toc"></a>

0. [Table of Contents](#toc)
1. [Introduction](#intro)
2. [Math (Mxx)](#mxx)
   1. [Fundamentals (MFx)](#mfx)
   2. [Analysis (MMx)](#mmx)
   3. [Algebra (MGx)](#mgx)
   4. [Discrete (MDx)](#mdx)
   5. [Dynamical Systems (MOx)](#mox)
   6. [Geometry (MRx)](#mrx)
   7. [Number Theory (MNx)](#mnx)
   8. [Topology (MTx)](#mtx)
   9. [Numerical (MAx)](#max)
   10. [Statistics & Probability (MSx)](#msx)
3. [Physics (Pxx)](#pxx)
   1. [Fundamentals (PFx)](#pfx)
   2. [Electricity & Magnetism (PEx)](#pex)
   3. [Quantum (PQx)](#pqx)
   4. [Gravitational (PRx)](#prx)
   5. [Astrophysics (PAx)](#pax)
   6. [High Energy (PHx)](#phx)
4. [Electrical & Computer Engineering (Exx)](#exx)
   1. [Fundamentals (EFx)](#efx)
   2. [Electronics (EEx)](#eex)
   3. [Digital Systems (EDx)](#edx)
   4. [Devices (EVx)](#evx)
   5. [Signal Processing (ESx)](#esx)
   6. [Controls (EKx)](#ekx)
   7. [Communications (ECx)](#ecx)
   8. [Power (EPx)](#epx)
   9. [Photonics & Lasers (ELx)](#elx)
5. [Mechanical Engineering (Axx)](#axx)
   1. TBD


## Introduction  <a name="intro"></a>

This is a long and uninformed list of study materials for different areas of the sciences. This list is by no means comprehensive. Each categroy has the following information:

* Pre-requisites
* A short description (usually the first line from wikipedia)
* A list of resources

 Each category additionally has a corresponding 3-character alpha-numeric for shorthands, which is useful for listing pre-requisites. Resources may or may not have comments detailing the difficulty or quiks of the resource.

 Enjoy.

---

## Math (Mxx) <a name="mxx"></a>

> Mathematics is an area of knowledge that includes the topics of numbers, formulas and related structures, shapes and the spaces in which they are contained, and quantities and their changes.

**Resources:**

* *The Elements*, Euclid

---

### Fundamentals (MFx) <a name="mfx"></a>

#### 1. Proofs & Logic (MF1) <a name="mf1"></a>

> Logic is the study of correct reasoning.

**PR:** None

**Resources:**

* *A Transition to Advanced Mathematics*, Smith, Eggen, Andre
* *How to Prove It*, Velleman

#### 2. Real Analysis (MF2) <a name="mf2"></a>

> Real analysis studies the behavior of real numbers, sequences and series of real numbers, and real functions.

**PR:** [MF1](#mf1)

**Resources:**

* *Principles of Mathematical Analysis*, Rudin
>> Standard, but difficult
* *Understanding Analysis*, Abbott
* *Analysis I && II*, Tao

#### 3. Abstract Algebra (MF3) <a name="mf3"></a>

> Abstract algebra or modern algebra is the study of algebraic structures.[1] Algebraic structures include groups, rings, fields, modules, vector spaces, lattices, and algebras over a field.

**PR:** [MF1](#mf1)

**Resources:**

* *Topics in Algebra*, Herstein
>> Standard approach
* *Algebra*, Artin
>> Geometric approach
* *Algebra*, Lang
>> Coprehensive and advanced
* *Abstract Algebra*, Dummit, Foote
>> Encyclopedic
* *Algebra Chapter 0*, Aluffi
* *Contemporary Abstract Algebra*, Gallian

#### 4. Linear Algebra (MF4) <a name="mf4"></a>

> Linear algebra is the branch of mathematics concerning linear equations.

**PR:** [MF1](#mf1)

**Resources:**

* *Linear Algebra and Its Applications*, Strang
* *Linear Algebra Done Right*, Axler
>> Doesn't cover determinants
* *Linear Algebra*, Shilov
* *Linear Algebra and Geometry*, Suetin, Kostrikin, Manin
>> Advanced
* *Introduction to Linear ALgebra*, Strang
* *Linear ALgebra*, Freidberg, Insel, Spence
>> Comprehensive

#### 5. Complex Analysis (MF5)(#mf5) <a name="mf5"></a>

> Complex analysis, traditionally known as the theory of functions of a complex variable, is the branch of mathematical analysis that investigates functions of complex numbers.

**PR:** [MF1](#mf1), [MF2](#mf2)

**Resources:**

* *Complex Analysis: A First Course with Applications*, Zill, Shanahan
* *Visual Complex Analysis*, Needham
* *Complex Variables and Applications*, Brown, Churchill
* *Fundamentals of Complex Analysis*, Snider, Saff

---

### Analysis (MMx) <a name="mmx"></a>

---

### Algebra (MGx) <a name="mgx"></a>

---

### Discrete (MDx) <a name="mdx"></a>

---

### Dynamical Systems (MOx) <a name="mox"></a>

---

### Geometry (MRx) <a name="mrx"></a>

---

### Number Theory (MNx) <a name="mnx"></a>

---

### Topology (MTx) <a name="mrx"></a>

---

### Numerical (MAx) <a name="max"></a>

---

### Statistics & Probability (MSx) <a name="msx"></a>


---

### Physics (Pxx) <a name="pxx"></a>

---

### Fundamentals (PFx) <a name="pfx"></a>

---

### Electricity & Magnetism (PEx) <a name="pex"></a>

---

### Quantum (PQx) <a name="pqx"></a>

---

### Gravitational (PRx) <a name="prx"></a>

---

### Astrophysics (PAx) <a name="pax"></a>

---

### High Energy (PHx) <a name="phx"></a>


---

### Electrical & Computer Engineering (Exx) <a name="exx"></a>

---

### Fundamentals (EFx) <a name="efx"></a>

---

### Electronics (EEx) <a name="eex"></a>

---

### Digital Systems (EDx) <a name="edx"></a>

---

### Devices (EVx) <a name="evx"></a>

---

### Signal Processing (ESx) <a name="esx"></a>

---

### Controls (EKx) <a name="ekx"></a>

---

### Communications (ECx) <a name="ecx"></a>

---

### Power (EPx) <a name="epx"></a>

---

### Photonics & Lasers (ELx) <a name="elx"></a>


---

### Mechanical Engineering (Axx) <a name="axx"></a>